content/posts/posts/hugo-is-fantastic.md, before:

---
title: "Hugo is fantastic"
date: 2020-05-20T13:38:33+02:00
tags: ["Hugo"]
---

Hugo is a static site generator, written in Go which is very easy for anybody to use.

The normal stuff
* it's super fast (this page regenerates in about 3-18 ms on my laptop)
* supports markdown with syntax highlight

```ruby
10.times do |iteration|
  puts "There is syntax highlighting built in :)"
end
```

but the coolest part is that it has many builtin shortcodes:

```md
{{</* youtube 2xkNJL4gJ9E */>}}
```

Output:

{{< youtube 2xkNJL4gJ9E >}}

See the other [builtin shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#use-hugos-built-in-shortcodes)

Adding your own your shortcode components is also super simple with just a sprinkle of HTML.

Lets create one for calling out to the [robohash](https://robohash.org/) service. It will allow us to pass any string and get back a unique robot for that string. [[more info](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eu4zSaKOY4A&list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpOnyRlyS-liKL5ReHDcj4G3&index=22)]

```html
<!--
  contents of layouts/shortcodes/robot.html...
  note the `{{.Get 0}}` fetches the first argument
-->
<img
  src="https://robohash.org/{{.Get 0}}.png?bgset=bg1"
  class="br-100 dib shadow-5"
  style="width: auto;"
  alt="Autogenerated robot for the string `{{.Get 0}}`"
/>
```

That's it, then you can use this new component in any of your posts e.g.

```md
{{</* robot "Kelsey Hightower" */>}}

{{</* robot "Bjørn Erik Pedersen" */>}}
```

Ouput:

{{< robot "Kelsey Hightower" >}}

and:

{{< robot "Bjørn Erik Pedersen" >}}


Lets get started. First [install hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) then:

```shell
# Download this repository:
git clone git@github.com:ContainerSolutions/runbooks.git

# Generate a new runbook:
hugo new posts/<your-post-name>.md

# See what it looks like:
hugo serve -D
```

Commit message:

Fix errors in the Hugo runbook
Previously the git clone command was not including the theme submodules.
I also made some small changes to make the order of the commands more
logical.

content/posts/posts/hugo-is-fantastic.md, after:

---
title: "Hugo is fantastic"
date: 2020-05-20T13:38:33+02:00
tags: ["Hugo"]
---

Hugo is a static site generator, written in Go which is very easy for anybody to use.

The normal stuff
* it's super fast (this page regenerates in about 3-18 ms on my laptop)
* supports markdown with syntax highlight

```ruby
10.times do |iteration|
  puts "There is syntax highlighting built in :)"
end
```

but the coolest part is that it has many builtin shortcodes:

```md
{{</* youtube 2xkNJL4gJ9E */>}}
```

Output:

{{< youtube 2xkNJL4gJ9E >}}

See the other [builtin shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#use-hugos-built-in-shortcodes)

Adding your own your shortcode components is also super simple with just a sprinkle of HTML.

Lets create one for calling out to the [robohash](https://robohash.org/) service. It will allow us to pass any string and get back a unique robot for that string. [[more info](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eu4zSaKOY4A&list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpOnyRlyS-liKL5ReHDcj4G3&index=22)]

```html
<!--
  contents of layouts/shortcodes/robot.html...
  note the `{{.Get 0}}` fetches the first argument
-->
<img
  src="https://robohash.org/{{.Get 0}}.png?bgset=bg1"
  class="br-100 dib shadow-5"
  style="width: auto;"
  alt="Autogenerated robot for the string `{{.Get 0}}`"
/>
```

That's it, then you can use this new component in any of your posts e.g.

```md
{{</* robot "Kelsey Hightower" */>}}

{{</* robot "Bjørn Erik Pedersen" */>}}
```

Ouput:

{{< robot "Kelsey Hightower" >}}

and:

{{< robot "Bjørn Erik Pedersen" >}}


Lets get started. First [install hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) then:

```shell
# Download this repository:
git clone --recursive git@github.com:ContainerSolutions/runbooks.git

# Run the server. Note: the command will output a url for you:
hugo serve -D

# Try making a new runbook:
hugo new posts/<your-post-name>.md

```
